'\" t
.nh
.TH "X86-XRESLDTRK" "7" "December 2023" "Intel" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
XRESLDTRK - RESUME TRACKING LOAD ADDRESSES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fBOpcode/Instruction\fP	\fBOp/En\fP	\fB64/32 bit Mode Support\fP	\fBCPUID Feature Flag\fP	\fBDescription\fP
F2 0F 01 E9 XRESLDTRK	ZO	V/V	TSXLDTRK	T{
Specifies the end of an Intel TSX suspend read address tracking region.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING  href="xresldtrk.html#instruction-operand-encoding"
class="anchor">¶

.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fBOp/En\fP	\fBTuple\fP	\fBOperand 1\fP	\fBOperand 2\fP	\fBOperand 3\fP	\fBOperand 4\fP
ZO	N/A	N/A	N/A	N/A	N/A
.TE

.SS DESCRIPTION
The instruction marks the end of an Intel TSX (RTM) suspend load address
tracking region. If the instruction is used inside a suspend load
address tracking region it will end the suspend region and all following
load addresses will be added to the transaction read set. If this
instruction is used inside an active transaction but not in a suspend
region it will cause transaction abort.

.PP
If the instruction is used outside of a transactional region it behaves
like a NOP.

.PP
Chapter 16, “Programming with Intel® Transactional Synchronization
Extensions‚” in the Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures
Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1 provides additional information on
Intel® TSX Suspend Load Address Tracking.

.SS OPERATION
.SS XRESLDTRK
.EX
IF RTM_ACTIVE = 1:
    IF SUSLDTRK_ACTIVE = 1:
        SUSLDTRK_ACTIVE := 0
    ELSE:
        RTM_ABORT
ELSE:
    NOP
.EE

.SS FLAGS AFFECTED
None.

.SS INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT  href="xresldtrk.html#intel-c-c++-compiler-intrinsic-equivalent"
class="anchor">¶

.EX
XRESLDTRK void _xresldtrk(void);
.EE

.SS SIMD FLOATING-POINT EXCEPTIONS  href="xresldtrk.html#simd-floating-point-exceptions"
class="anchor">¶

.PP
None.

.SS OTHER EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fP	\fB\fP
#UD	T{
If CPUID.(EAX=7, ECX=0):EDX.TSXLDTRK[bit 16] = 0.
T}
	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH COLOPHON
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be
incomplete or
broken in various obvious or non-obvious ways.
Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s
Manual
\[la]https://software.intel.com/en\-us/download/intel\-64\-and\-ia\-32\-architectures\-sdm\-combined\-volumes\-1\-2a\-2b\-2c\-2d\-3a\-3b\-3c\-3d\-and\-4\[ra]
for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/MrQubo/x86-manpages.
