'\" t
.nh
.TH "X86-SHA256MSG2" "7" "December 2023" "Intel" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
SHA256MSG2 - PERFORM A FINAL CALCULATION FOR THE NEXT FOUR SHA256 MESSAGE DWORDS
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fBOpcode/Instruction\fP	\fBOp/En\fP	\fB64/32 bit Mode Support\fP	\fBCPUID Feature Flag\fP	\fBDescription\fP
T{
NP 0F 38 CD /r SHA256MSG2 xmm1, xmm2/m128
T}	RM	V/V	SHA	T{
Performs the final calculation for the next four SHA256 message dwords using previous message dwords from xmm1 and xmm2/m128, storing the result in xmm1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING  href="sha256msg2.html#instruction-operand-encoding"
class="anchor">¶

.TS
allbox;
l l l l 
l l l l .
\fBOp/En\fP	\fBOperand 1\fP	\fBOperand 2\fP	\fBOperand 3\fP
RM	ModRM:reg (r, w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	N/A
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
The SHA256MSG2 instruction is one of two SHA2 message scheduling
instructions. The instruction performs the final calculation for the
next four SHA256 message dwords.

.SH OPERATION
.SS SHA256MSG2
.EX
W14 := SRC2[95:64] ;
W15 := SRC2[127:96] ;
W16 := SRC1[31: 0] + σ1( W14) ;
W17 := SRC1[63: 32] + σ1( W15) ;
W18 := SRC1[95: 64] + σ1( W16) ;
W19 := SRC1[127: 96] + σ1( W17) ;
DEST[127:96] := W19 ;
DEST[95:64] := W18 ;
DEST[63:32] := W17 ;
DEST[31:0] := W16;
.EE

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT  href="sha256msg2.html#intel-c-c++-compiler-intrinsic-equivalent"
class="anchor">¶

.EX
SHA256MSG2 __m128i _mm_sha256msg2_epu32(__m128i, __m128i);
.EE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
None.

.SH SIMD FLOATING-POINT EXCEPTIONS  href="sha256msg2.html#simd-floating-point-exceptions"
class="anchor">¶

.PP
None.

.SH OTHER EXCEPTIONS
See Table 2-21, “Type 4 Class
Exception Conditions.”

.SH COLOPHON
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be
incomplete or
broken in various obvious or non-obvious ways.
Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s
Manual
\[la]https://software.intel.com/en\-us/download/intel\-64\-and\-ia\-32\-architectures\-sdm\-combined\-volumes\-1\-2a\-2b\-2c\-2d\-3a\-3b\-3c\-3d\-and\-4\[ra]
for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/MrQubo/x86-manpages.
