'\" t
.nh
.TH "X86-VMFUNC" "7" "December 2023" "Intel" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VMFUNC - INVOKE VM FUNCTION
.TS
allbox;
l l l 
l l l .
\fBOpcode/Instruction\fP	\fBOp/En\fP	\fBDescription\fP
NP 0F 01 D4 VMFUNC	ZO	T{
Invoke VM function specified in EAX.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fP	\fB\fP	\fB\fP	\fB\fP	\fB\fP
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
ZO	NA	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
This instruction allows software in VMX non-root operation to invoke a
VM function, which is processor functionality enabled and configured by
software in VMX root operation. The value of EAX selects the specific VM
function being invoked.

.PP
The behavior of each VM function (including any additional fault
checking) is specified in Section 26.5.6, “VM Functions.”

.SH OPERATION
.EX
Perform functionality of the VM function specified in EAX;
.EE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
Depends on the VM function specified in EAX. See Section 26.5.6, “VM
Functions.”

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS (NOT INCLUDING THOSE DEFINED BY SPECIFIC VM FUNCTIONS) <a
href="vmfunc.html#protected-mode-exceptions--not-including-those-defined-by-specific-vm-functions-"
class="anchor">¶

.PP
#UD If executed outside VMX non-root operation.

.PP
If “enable VM functions” VM-execution control is 0.

.PP
If EAX ≥ 64.

.SH REAL-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH VIRTUAL-8086 EXCEPTIONS
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH COLOPHON
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be
incomplete or
broken in various obvious or non-obvious ways.
Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s
Manual
\[la]https://software.intel.com/en\-us/download/intel\-64\-and\-ia\-32\-architectures\-sdm\-combined\-volumes\-1\-2a\-2b\-2c\-2d\-3a\-3b\-3c\-3d\-and\-4\[ra]
for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/MrQubo/x86-manpages.
