'\" t
.nh
.TH "X86-GETSEC[WAKEUP]" "7" "December 2023" "Intel" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
GETSEC[WAKEUP] - WAKE UP SLEEPING PROCESSORS IN MEASURED ENVIRONMENT
.TS
allbox;
l l l 
l l l .
\fBOpcode\fP	\fBInstruction\fP	\fBDescription\fP
NP 0F 37 (EAX=8)	GETSEC[WAKEUP]	T{
Wake up the responding logical processors from the SENTER sleep state.
T}
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
The GETSEC[WAKEUP] leaf function broadcasts a wake-up message to all
logical processors currently in the SENTER sleep state. This GETSEC leaf
must be executed only by the ILP, in order to wake-up the RLPs.
Responding logical processors (RLPs) enter the SENTER sleep state after
completion of the SENTER rendezvous sequence.

.PP
The GETSEC[WAKEUP] instruction may only be executed:
.IP \(bu 2
In a measured environment as initiated by execution of
GETSEC[SENTER]\&.
.IP \(bu 2
Outside of authenticated code execution mode.
.IP \(bu 2
Execution is not allowed unless the processor is in protected mode
with CPL = 0 and EFLAGS.VM = 0.
.IP \(bu 2
In addition, the logical processor must be designated as the
boot-strap processor as configured by setting IA32_APIC_BASE.BSP =
1.

.PP
If these conditions are not met, attempts to execute GETSEC[WAKEUP]
result in a general protection violation.

.PP
An RLP exits the SENTER sleep state and start execution in response to a
WAKEUP signal initiated by ILP’s execution of GETSEC[WAKEUP]\&. The RLP
retrieves a pointer to a data structure that contains information to
enable execution from a defined entry point. This data structure is
located using a physical address held in the Intel®
TXT-capable chipset configuration register LT.MLE.JOIN. The register is
publicly writable in the chipset by all processors and is not restricted
by the Intel® TXT-capable chipset configuration register lock
status. The format of this data structure is defined in
Table 7-12\&.

.PP
The MLE JOIN data structure contains the information necessary to
initialize RLP processor state and permit the processor to join the
measured environment. The GDTR, LIP, and CS, DS, SS, and ES selector
values are initialized using this data structure. The CS selector index
is derived directly from the segment selector initializer field; DS, SS,
and ES selectors are initialized to CS+8. The segment descriptor fields
are initialized implicitly with BASE = 0, LIMIT = FFFFFH, G = 1, D = 1,
P = 1, S = 1; read/write/access for DS, SS, and ES; and
execute/read/access for CS. It is the responsibility of external
software to establish a GDT pointed to by the MLE JOIN data structure
that contains descriptor entries consistent with the implicit settings
initialized by the processor (see Table
7-6). Certain states from the content of
Table 7-12 are checked for consistency
by the processor prior to execution. A failure of any consistency check
results in the RLP aborting entry into the protected environment and
signaling an Intel® TXT shutdown condition. The specific checks
performed are documented later in this section. After successful
completion of processor consistency checks and subsequent
initialization, RLP execution in the measured environment begins from
the entry point at offset 12 (as indicated in
Table 7-12).

.SH OPERATION
.EX
(* The state of the internal flag ACMODEFLAG and SENTERFLAG persist across instruction boundary *)
IF (CR4.SMXE=0)
    THEN #UD;
ELSE IF (in VMX non-root operation)
    THEN VM Exit (reason=”GETSEC instruction”);
ELSE IF (GETSEC leaf unsupported)
    THEN #UD;
ELSE IF ((CR0.PE=0) or (CPL>0) or (EFLAGS.VM=1) or (SENTERFLAG=0) or (ACMODEFLAG=1) or (IN_SMM=0) or (in VMX operation) or
(IA32_APIC_BASE.BSP=0) or (TXT chipset not present))
    THEN #GP(0);
ELSE
    SignalTXTMsg(WAKEUP);
END;
.EE

.SS RLP_SIPI_WAKEUP_FROM_SENTER_ROUTINE: (RLP ONLY)  href="wakeup.html#rlp_sipi_wakeup_from_senter_routine---rlp-only-"
class="anchor">¶

.EX
WHILE (no SignalWAKEUP event);
IF (IA32_SMM_MONITOR_CTL[0] ≠ ILP.IA32_SMM_MONITOR_CTL[0])
    THEN TXT-SHUTDOWN(#IllegalEvent)
IF (IA32_SMM_MONITOR_CTL[0] = 0)
    THEN Unmask SMI pin event;
ELSE
    Mask SMI pin event;
Mask A20M, and NMI external pin events (unmask INIT);
Mask SignalWAKEUP event;
Invalidate processor TLB(s);
Drain outgoing transactions;
TempGDTRLIMIT := LOAD(LT.MLE.JOIN);
TempGDTRBASE := LOAD(LT.MLE.JOIN+4);
TempSegSel := LOAD(LT.MLE.JOIN+8);
TempEIP := LOAD(LT.MLE.JOIN+12);
IF (TempGDTLimit & FFFF0000h)
    THEN TXT-SHUTDOWN(#BadJOINFormat);
IF ((TempSegSel > TempGDTRLIMIT-15) or (TempSegSel < 8))
    THEN TXT-SHUTDOWN(#BadJOINFormat);
IF ((TempSegSel.TI=1) or (TempSegSel.RPL≠0))
    THEN TXT-SHUTDOWN(#BadJOINFormat);
CR0.[PG,CD,NW,AM,WP] := 0;
CR0.[NE,PE] := 1;
CR4 := 00004000h;
EFLAGS := 00000002h;
IA32_EFER := 0;
GDTR.BASE := TempGDTRBASE;
GDTR.LIMIT := TempGDTRLIMIT;
CS.SEL := TempSegSel;
CS.BASE := 0;
CS.LIMIT := FFFFFh;
CS.G := 1;
CS.D := 1;
CS.AR := 9Bh;
DS.SEL := TempSegSel+8;
DS.BASE := 0;
DS.LIMIT := FFFFFh;
DS.G := 1;
DS.D := 1;
DS.AR := 93h;
SS := DS;
ES := DS;
DR7 := 00000400h;
IA32_DEBUGCTL := 0;
EIP := TempEIP;
END;
.EE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
None.

.SH USE OF PREFIXES
LOCK Causes #UD.

.PP
REP* Cause #UD (includes REPNE/REPNZ and REP/REPE/REPZ).

.PP
Operand size Causes #UD.

.PP
NP 66/F2/F3 prefixes are not allowed.

.PP
Segmentoverrides Ignored.

.PP
Address size Ignored.

.PP
REX Ignored.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fP	\fB\fP
#UD	If CR4.SMXE = 0.
	If GETSEC[WAKEUP] is not reported as supported by GETSEC[CAPABILITIES]\&.
#GP(0)	IfCR0.PE=0orCPL&gt;0orEFLAGS.VM=1.
	If in VMX operation.
	T{
If a protected partition is not already active or the processor is currently in authenticated code mode.
T}
	If the processor is in SMM.
#UD	If CR4.SMXE = 0.
	If GETSEC[WAKEUP] is not reported as supported by GETSEC[CAPABILITIES]\&.
#GP(0)	GETSEC[WAKEUP] is not recognized in real-address mode.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fP	\fB\fP
#UD	If CR4.SMXE = 0.
	If GETSEC[WAKEUP] is not reported as supported by GETSEC[CAPABILITIES]\&.
#GP(0)	GETSEC[WAKEUP] is not recognized in virtual-8086 mode.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
All protected mode exceptions apply.

.SH 64-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
All protected mode exceptions apply.

.SH VM-EXIT CONDITION
Reason (GETSEC) If in VMX non-root operation.

.SH COLOPHON
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be
incomplete or
broken in various obvious or non-obvious ways.
Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s
Manual
\[la]https://software.intel.com/en\-us/download/intel\-64\-and\-ia\-32\-architectures\-sdm\-combined\-volumes\-1\-2a\-2b\-2c\-2d\-3a\-3b\-3c\-3d\-and\-4\[ra]
for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/MrQubo/x86-manpages.
