'\" t
.nh
.TH "X86-VRCP28SD" "7" "December 2023" "Intel" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VRCP28SD - APPROXIMATION TO THE RECIPROCAL OF SCALAR DOUBLE PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUEWITH LESS THAN 2^-28 RELATIVE ERROR
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fBOpcode/Instruction\fP	\fBOp/En\fP	\fB64/32 bit Mode Support\fP	\fBCPUID Feature Flag\fP	\fBDescription\fP
T{
EVEX.LLIG.66.0F38.W1 CB /r VRCP28SD xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m64 {sae}
T}	A	V/V	AVX512ER	T{
Computes the approximate reciprocal ( &lt; 2^-28 relative error) of the scalar double precision floating-point value in xmm3/m64 and stores the results in xmm1. Under writemask. Also, upper double precision floating-point value (bits[127:64]) from xmm2 is copied to xmm1[127:64]\&.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING  href="vrcp28sd.html#instruction-operand-encoding"
class="anchor">¶

.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fBOp/En Tuple Type Operand 1 Operand 2 Operand 3 Operand 4\fP	\fB\fP	\fB\fP	\fB\fP	\fB\fP	\fB\fP
T{
A Tuple1 Scalar ModRM:reg (w) EVEX.vvvv (r) ModRM:r/m (r) N/A
T}					
.TE

.SS DESCRIPTION
Computes the reciprocal approximation of the low float64 value in the
second source operand (the third operand) and store the result to the
destination operand (the first operand). The approximate reciprocal is
evaluated with less than 2^-28 of maximum relative error. The result is
written into the low float64 element of the destination operand
according to the writemask k1. Bits 127:64 of the destination is copied
from the corresponding bits of the first source operand (the second
operand).

.PP
A denormal input value is treated as zero and does not signal #DE,
irrespective of MXCSR.DAZ. A denormal result is flushed to zero and does
not signal #UE, irrespective of MXCSR.FTZ.

.PP
If any source element is NaN, the quietized NaN source value is returned
for that element. If any source element is ±∞, ±0.0 is returned for that
element. Also, if any source element is ±0.0, ±∞ is returned for that
element.

.PP
The first source operand is an XMM register. The second source operand
is an XMM register or a 64-bit memory location. The destination operand
is a XMM register, conditionally updated using writemask k1.

.SS A NUMERICALLY EXACT IMPLEMENTATION OF VRCP28XX CAN BE FOUND AT HTTPS://SOFTWARE.INTEL.COM/EN-US/ARTICLES/REFER- <a
href="vrcp28sd.html#a-numerically-exact-implementation-of-vrcp28xx-can-be-found-at-https---software-intel-com-en-us-articles-refer-"
class="anchor">¶

.SS ENCE-IMPLEMENTATIONS-FOR-IA-APPROXIMATION-INSTRUCTIONS-VRCP14-VRSQRT14-VRCP28-VRSQRT28-VEXP2. <a
href="vrcp28sd.html#ence-implementations-for-ia-approximation-instructions-vrcp14-vrsqrt14-vrcp28-vrsqrt28-vexp2-"
class="anchor">¶

.SS OPERATION
.SS VRCP28SD ((EVEX ENCODED VERSIONS)  href="vrcp28sd.html#vrcp28sd---evex-encoded-versions-"
class="anchor">¶

.EX
IF k1[0] OR *no writemask* THEN
        DEST[63: 0] := RCP_28_DP(1.0/SRC2[63: 0]);
ELSE
    IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
        THEN *DEST[63: 0] remains unchanged*
        ELSE ; zeroing-masking
            DEST[63: 0] := 0
    FI;
FI;
ENDFOR;
DEST[127:64] := SRC1[127: 64]
DEST[MAXVL-1:128] := 0
.EE

.SS INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT  href="vrcp28sd.html#intel-c-c++-compiler-intrinsic-equivalent"
class="anchor">¶

.EX
VRCP28SD __m128d _mm_rcp28_round_sd ( __m128d a, __m128d b, int sae);

VRCP28SD __m128d _mm_mask_rcp28_round_sd(__m128d s, __mmask8 m, __m128d a, __m128d b, int sae);

VRCP28SD __m128d _mm_maskz_rcp28_round_sd(__mmask8 m, __m128d a, __m128d b, int sae);
.EE

.SS SIMD FLOATING-POINT EXCEPTIONS  href="vrcp28sd.html#simd-floating-point-exceptions"
class="anchor">¶

.PP
Invalid (if SNaN input), Divide-by-zero.

.SS OTHER EXCEPTIONS
See Table 2-47, “Type E3 Class
Exception Conditions.”

.SH COLOPHON
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be
incomplete or
broken in various obvious or non-obvious ways.
Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s
Manual
\[la]https://software.intel.com/en\-us/download/intel\-64\-and\-ia\-32\-architectures\-sdm\-combined\-volumes\-1\-2a\-2b\-2c\-2d\-3a\-3b\-3c\-3d\-and\-4\[ra]
for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/MrQubo/x86-manpages.
