'\" t
.nh
.TH "X86-VCVTQQ2PS" "7" "December 2023" "Intel" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VCVTQQ2PS - CONVERT PACKED QUADWORD INTEGERS TO PACKED SINGLE PRECISION FLOATING-POINTVALUES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fBOpcode/Instruction\fP	\fBOp/En\fP	\fB64/32 Bit Mode Support\fP	\fBCPUID Feature Flag\fP	\fBDescription\fP
T{
EVEX.128.0F.W1 5B /r VCVTQQ2PS xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2/m128/m64bcst
T}	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512DQ	T{
Convert two packed quadword integers from xmm2/mem to packed single precision floating-point values in xmm1 with writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.0F.W1 5B /r VCVTQQ2PS xmm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2/m256/m64bcst
T}	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512DQ	T{
Convert four packed quadword integers from ymm2/mem to packed single precision floating-point values in xmm1 with writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.0F.W1 5B /r VCVTQQ2PS ymm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2/m512/m64bcst{er}
T}	A	V/V	AVX512DQ	T{
Convert eight packed quadword integers from zmm2/mem to eight packed single precision floating-point values in ymm1 with writemask k1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING  href="vcvtqq2ps.html#instruction-operand-encoding"
class="anchor">¶

.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fBOp/En\fP	\fBTuple Type\fP	\fBOperand 1\fP	\fBOperand 2\fP	\fBOperand 3\fP	\fBOperand 4\fP
A	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	N/A	N/A
.TE

.SS DESCRIPTION
Converts packed quadword integers in the source operand (second operand)
to packed single precision floating-point values in the destination
operand (first operand).

.PP
The source operand is a ZMM/YMM/XMM register or a 512/256/128-bit memory
location. The destination operation is a YMM/XMM/XMM (lower 64 bits)
register conditionally updated with writemask k1.

.PP
EVEX.vvvv is reserved and must be 1111b otherwise instructions will
#UD.

.SS OPERATION
.SS VCVTQQ2PS (EVEX ENCODED VERSIONS) WHEN SRC OPERAND IS A REGISTER <a
href="vcvtqq2ps.html#vcvtqq2ps--evex-encoded-versions--when-src-operand-is-a-register"
class="anchor">¶

.EX
(KL, VL) = (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
FOR j := 0 TO KL-1
    i := j * 64
    k := j * 32
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN DEST[k+31:k] :=
            Convert_QuadInteger_To_Single_Precision_Floating_Point(SRC[i+63:i])
        ELSE
            IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                THEN *DEST[k+31:k] remains unchanged*
                ELSE
                        ; zeroing-masking
                    DEST[k+31:k] := 0
            FI
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL-1:VL/2] := 0
.EE

.SS VCVTQQ2PS (EVEX ENCODED VERSIONS) WHEN SRC OPERAND IS A MEMORY SOURCE <a
href="vcvtqq2ps.html#vcvtqq2ps--evex-encoded-versions--when-src-operand-is-a-memory-source"
class="anchor">¶

.EX
(KL, VL) = (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
FOR j := 0 TO KL-1
    i := j * 64
    k := j * 32
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN
            IF (EVEX.b == 1)
                THEN
                    DEST[k+31:k] :=
            Convert_QuadInteger_To_Single_Precision_Floating_Point(SRC[63:0])
                ELSE
                    DEST[k+31:k] :=
            Convert_QuadInteger_To_Single_Precision_Floating_Point(SRC[i+63:i])
            FI;
        ELSE
            IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                THEN *DEST[k+31:k] remains unchanged*
                ELSE ; zeroing-masking
                    DEST[k+31:k] := 0
            FI
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL-1:VL/2] := 0
.EE

.SS INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT  href="vcvtqq2ps.html#intel-c-c++-compiler-intrinsic-equivalent"
class="anchor">¶

.EX
VCVTQQ2PS __m256 _mm512_cvtepi64_ps( __m512i a);

VCVTQQ2PS __m256 _mm512_mask_cvtepi64_ps( __m256 s, __mmask16 k, __m512i a);

VCVTQQ2PS __m256 _mm512_maskz_cvtepi64_ps( __mmask16 k, __m512i a);

VCVTQQ2PS __m256 _mm512_cvt_roundepi64_ps( __m512i a, int r);

VCVTQQ2PS __m256 _mm512_mask_cvt_roundepi_ps( __m256 s, __mmask8 k, __m512i a, int r);

VCVTQQ2PS __m256 _mm512_maskz_cvt_roundepi64_ps( __mmask8 k, __m512i a, int r);

VCVTQQ2PS __m128 _mm256_cvtepi64_ps( __m256i a);

VCVTQQ2PS __m128 _mm256_mask_cvtepi64_ps( __m128 s, __mmask8 k, __m256i a);

VCVTQQ2PS __m128 _mm256_maskz_cvtepi64_ps( __mmask8 k, __m256i a);

VCVTQQ2PS __m128 _mm_cvtepi64_ps( __m128i a);

VCVTQQ2PS __m128 _mm_mask_cvtepi64_ps( __m128 s, __mmask8 k, __m128i a);

VCVTQQ2PS __m128 _mm_maskz_cvtepi64_ps( __mmask8 k, __m128i a);
.EE

.SS SIMD FLOATING-POINT EXCEPTIONS  href="vcvtqq2ps.html#simd-floating-point-exceptions"
class="anchor">¶

.PP
Precision.

.SS OTHER EXCEPTIONS
EVEX-encoded instructions, see Table
2-46, “Type E2 Class Exception Conditions.”

.PP
Additionally:

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fP	\fB\fP
#UD	If EVEX.vvvv != 1111B.
.TE

.SH COLOPHON
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be
incomplete or
broken in various obvious or non-obvious ways.
Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s
Manual
\[la]https://software.intel.com/en\-us/download/intel\-64\-and\-ia\-32\-architectures\-sdm\-combined\-volumes\-1\-2a\-2b\-2c\-2d\-3a\-3b\-3c\-3d\-and\-4\[ra]
for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/MrQubo/x86-manpages.
