'\" t
.nh
.TH "X86-RDPID" "7" "December 2023" "Intel" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
RDPID - READ PROCESSOR ID
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fBOpcode/Instruction\fP	\fBOp/En\fP	\fB64/32-bit Mode\fP	\fBCPUID Feature Flag\fP	\fBDescription\fP
F3 0F C7 /7 RDPID r32	R	N.E./V	RDPID	Read IA32_TSC_AUX into r32.
F3 0F C7 /7 RDPID r64	R	V/N.E.	RDPID	Read IA32_TSC_AUX into r64.
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING1
.PP
.RS

.PP
1.ModRM.MOD = 011B required

.RE

.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fBOp/En\fP	\fBOperand 1\fP	\fBOperand 2\fP	\fBOperand 3\fP	\fBOperand 4\fP
R	ModRM:r/m (w)	N/A	N/A	N/A
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads the value of the IA32_TSC_AUX MSR (address C0000103H) into the
destination register. The value of CS.D and operand-size prefixes (66H
and REX.W) do not affect the behavior of the RDPID instruction.

.SH OPERATION
.EX
DEST := IA32_TSC_AUX
.EE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
None.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fP	\fB\fP
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
	If CPUID.7H.0:ECX.RDPID[bit 22] = 0.
.TE

.SH REAL-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH VIRTUAL-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH COLOPHON
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be
incomplete or
broken in various obvious or non-obvious ways.
Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s
Manual
\[la]https://software.intel.com/en\-us/download/intel\-64\-and\-ia\-32\-architectures\-sdm\-combined\-volumes\-1\-2a\-2b\-2c\-2d\-3a\-3b\-3c\-3d\-and\-4\[ra]
for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/MrQubo/x86-manpages.
