'\" t
.nh
.TH "X86-VCVTPS2UDQ" "7" "December 2023" "Intel" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VCVTPS2UDQ - CONVERT PACKED SINGLE PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUES TO PACKED UNSIGNEDDOUBLEWORD INTEGER VALUES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fBOpcode/Instruction\fP	\fBOp/En\fP	\fB64/32 Bit Mode Support\fP	\fBCPUID Feature Flag\fP	\fBDescription\fP
T{
EVEX.128.0F.W0 79 /r VCVTPS2UDQ xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2/m128/m32bcst
T}	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Convert four packed single precision floating-point values from xmm2/m128/m32bcst to four packed unsigned doubleword values in xmm1 subject to writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.0F.W0 79 /r VCVTPS2UDQ ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2/m256/m32bcst
T}	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Convert eight packed single precision floating-point values from ymm2/m256/m32bcst to eight packed unsigned doubleword values in ymm1 subject to writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.0F.W0 79 /r VCVTPS2UDQ zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2/m512/m32bcst{er}
T}	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Convert sixteen packed single precision floating-point values from zmm2/m512/m32bcst to sixteen packed unsigned doubleword values in zmm1 subject to writemask k1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING  href="vcvtps2udq.html#instruction-operand-encoding"
class="anchor">¶

.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fBOp/En\fP	\fBTuple Type\fP	\fBOperand 1\fP	\fBOperand 2\fP	\fBOperand 3\fP	\fBOperand 4\fP
A	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	N/A	N/A
.TE

.SS DESCRIPTION
Converts sixteen packed single precision floating-point values in the
source operand to sixteen unsigned double-word integers in the
destination operand.

.PP
When a conversion is inexact, the value returned is rounded according to
the rounding control bits in the MXCSR register or the embedded rounding
control bits. If a converted result cannot be represented in the
destination format, the floating-point invalid exception is raised, and
if this exception is masked, the integer value 2w – 1 is
returned, where w represents the number of bits in the destination
format.

.PP
The source operand is a ZMM/YMM/XMM register, a 512/256/128-bit memory
location, or a 512/256/128-bit vector broadcasted from a 32-bit memory
location. The destination operand is a ZMM/YMM/XMM register
conditionally updated with writemask k1.

.PP
Note: EVEX.vvvv is reserved and must be 1111b otherwise instructions
will #UD.

.SS OPERATION
.SS VCVTPS2UDQ (EVEX ENCODED VERSIONS) WHEN SRC OPERAND IS A REGISTER <a
href="vcvtps2udq.html#vcvtps2udq--evex-encoded-versions--when-src-operand-is-a-register"
class="anchor">¶

.EX
(KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
IF (VL = 512) AND (EVEX.b = 1)
    THEN
        SET_ROUNDING_MODE_FOR_THIS_INSTRUCTION(EVEX.RC);
    ELSE
        SET_ROUNDING_MODE_FOR_THIS_INSTRUCTION(MXCSR.RC);
FI;
FOR j := 0 TO KL-1
    i := j * 32
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN DEST[i+31:i] :=
            Convert_Single_Precision_Floating_Point_To_UInteger(SRC[i+31:i])
        ELSE
            IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                ELSE ; zeroing-masking
                    DEST[i+31:i] := 0
            FI
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] := 0
.EE

.SS VCVTPS2UDQ (EVEX ENCODED VERSIONS) WHEN SRC OPERAND IS A MEMORY SOURCE <a
href="vcvtps2udq.html#vcvtps2udq--evex-encoded-versions--when-src-operand-is-a-memory-source"
class="anchor">¶

.EX
(KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
FOR j := 0 TO KL-1
    i := j * 32
    IF k1[j] OR *no *
        THEN
            IF (EVEX.b = 1)
                THEN
                    DEST[i+31:i] :=
            Convert_Single_Precision_Floating_Point_To_UInteger(SRC[31:0])
                ELSE
                    DEST[i+31:i] :=
            Convert_Single_Precision_Floating_Point_To_UInteger(SRC[i+31:i])
            FI;
        ELSE
            IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                ELSE ; zeroing-masking
                    DEST[i+31:i] := 0
            FI
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] := 0
.EE

.SS INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT  href="vcvtps2udq.html#intel-c-c++-compiler-intrinsic-equivalent"
class="anchor">¶

.EX
VCVTPS2UDQ __m512i _mm512_cvtps_epu32( __m512 a);

VCVTPS2UDQ __m512i _mm512_mask_cvtps_epu32( __m512i s, __mmask16 k, __m512 a);

VCVTPS2UDQ __m512i _mm512_maskz_cvtps_epu32( __mmask16 k, __m512 a);

VCVTPS2UDQ __m512i _mm512_cvt_roundps_epu32( __m512 a, int r);

VCVTPS2UDQ __m512i _mm512_mask_cvt_roundps_epu32( __m512i s, __mmask16 k, __m512 a, int r);

VCVTPS2UDQ __m512i _mm512_maskz_cvt_roundps_epu32( __mmask16 k, __m512 a, int r);

VCVTPS2UDQ __m256i _mm256_cvtps_epu32( __m256d a);

VCVTPS2UDQ __m256i _mm256_mask_cvtps_epu32( __m256i s, __mmask8 k, __m256 a);

VCVTPS2UDQ __m256i _mm256_maskz_cvtps_epu32( __mmask8 k, __m256 a);

VCVTPS2UDQ __m128i _mm_cvtps_epu32( __m128 a);

VCVTPS2UDQ __m128i _mm_mask_cvtps_epu32( __m128i s, __mmask8 k, __m128 a);

VCVTPS2UDQ __m128i _mm_maskz_cvtps_epu32( __mmask8 k, __m128 a);
.EE

.SS SIMD FLOATING-POINT EXCEPTIONS  href="vcvtps2udq.html#simd-floating-point-exceptions"
class="anchor">¶

.PP
Invalid, Precision.

.SS OTHER EXCEPTIONS
EVEX-encoded instructions, see Table
2-46, “Type E2 Class Exception Conditions.”

.PP
Additionally:

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fP	\fB\fP
#UD	If EVEX.vvvv != 1111B.
.TE

.SH COLOPHON
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be
incomplete or
broken in various obvious or non-obvious ways.
Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s
Manual
\[la]https://software.intel.com/en\-us/download/intel\-64\-and\-ia\-32\-architectures\-sdm\-combined\-volumes\-1\-2a\-2b\-2c\-2d\-3a\-3b\-3c\-3d\-and\-4\[ra]
for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/MrQubo/x86-manpages.
